<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0" role="NotInToc"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
          xml:id="appendix.license.hdf5" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
          xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
          xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Copyright Notice and License Terms for HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities</title>

<para>
HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities, 
Copyright 2006-2016 by The HDF Group.
</para>
<para>
NCSA HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5) Software Library and Utilities, 
Copyright 1998-2006 by the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois.
</para>
<para>
All rights reserved.
</para>
<para>
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted for any purpose (including commercial purposes) 
provided that the following conditions are met:
<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
   this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
   this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
   and/or materials provided with the distribution.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>In addition, redistributions of modified forms of the source or binary 
   code must carry prominent notices stating that the original code was 
   changed and the date of the change.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>All publications or advertising materials mentioning features or use of 
   this software are asked, but not required, to acknowledge that it was 
   developed by The HDF Group and by the National Center for Supercomputing 
   Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and 
   credit the contributors.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Neither the name of The HDF Group, the name of the University, nor the 
   name of any Contributor may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
   from this software without specific prior written permission from 
   The HDF Group, the University, or the Contributor, respectively.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
<para>
DISCLAIMER: 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE HDF GROUP AND THE CONTRIBUTORS 
"AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.  In no 
event shall The HDF Group or the Contributors be liable for any damages 
suffered by the users arising out of the use of this software, even if 
advised of the possibility of such damage. 
</para>
</section>
