<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<chapter version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="installation" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Installation</title>

    <para>Binary program packages for Linux, Windows, and macOS
    can be downloaded from <link xlink:href="http://www.ovito.org/">http://www.ovito.org/</link>.</para>
    
    <para>Note that OVITO uses OpenGL to render particles and other graphical elements.
    Older computers or outdated OpenGL graphics drivers may not be compatible with OVITO. It is recommended to install the most recent 
    version of your hardware vendor's graphics driver.</para>

    <simplesect xml:id="installation.runovito.linux">
      <title>Linux</title>
      <para>Extract the downloaded <filename>.tar.gz</filename> archive using the <command>tar</command> command, e.g.: <command>tar xzf ovito-2.8.1-x86_64.tar.gz</command>. 
      This will create a new subdirectory containing the program package. 
      Change into the new directory and start OVITO by running the executable <command>./bin/ovito</command>.
      </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect xml:id="installation.runovito.windows">
      <title>Windows</title>

      <para>Run the installer program <filename>ovito-x.y.z-win64.exe</filename> to install OVITO in a directory of your choice. 
      Windows might ask whether you really want to launch the program, because it was downloaded from the web and is not digitally signed. 
      </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect xml:id="installation.runovito.macos">
      <title>macOS</title>

      <para>Double-click the <filename>.dmg</filename> disk image file to open it, 
      agree to the program license, and drag the <filename>Ovito</filename> application bundle into your <filename>Applications</filename> folder.
      Then start OVITO by double-clicking the application bundle.
      </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect>
      <title>Building from source</title>

      <para>You can also download the source code of OVITO and build the program yourself.
      See the <link linkend="development">developer section</link> for instructions.</para>
    </simplesect>

</chapter>
